Capstone Project Proposal

This project proved to be too ambitious, but is what I had
in mind to start with.

1) What is the problem you want to solve.

I'd like to know if Scotland can feed its population in a
supply crisis, or just because it wants to (for health or
economic reasons).

2) Who is your client and why do they care about this problem?
In other words, what will your client DO or DECIDE based on
your analysis that they wouldn’t have otherwise?

Governmental and non-governmental entities dealing with
resilience and development.

They would know how close Scotland is to a 300-mile diet for
different food-groups and seasons.
Based on data from consumption and production, and the ratio
between them, the clients would be able to adapt their
policies, goals and research questions.

3) What data are you going to use for this? How will you
acquire this data?

http://britains-diet.labs.theodi.org/ has open data about
consumption at the UK level, with yearly subsamples for
Scotland. The data is 7k households per year, for each a
shopping-cart with a week's worth of food, and the 47
nutrients of the 315 different foods (which are in 18
food-groups).
Data is open 1974-2000, and only summaries are provided
from 2001 onwards.

Production data seems to be scarce and scattered, probably
reflecting a narrower variety in production, relative to a
wider variety in consumption.

4) In brief, outline your approach to solving this problem
(knowing that this might change later).

- Focus on consumption only, and on the UK as a whole, thus
answering just part of the broad question.
- For each household, calculate the nutrients from each
food-group. It would have to be "per person and per day",
ignoring the fact that different ages and life-styles
have different requirements.
- At a later stage, look at whatever data there is on
production, and see how much of what's needed can be
sourced locally in different seasons.

5) What are your deliverables? Typically, this would include
code, along with a paper and/or a slide deck.

- ipython/jupyter notebook with all the above.
